
				------  Face Recognition  ------
						-Astha Nirmal 
						-Dhananjay Jhinkwan


	This report summarise my project and my progress.

1. Task Description:
	Facial recognition is a technique to recognise or distinguish two different persons on the basis of their face.
Face of the person can be recongnised from digital image or a video frame from a video frame.In simple term facial recognition 
program crop the face that has been detected and compare with the faces stored in database and tells how much similar the face
is with the other faces present in database.
	Human beings perform face recognition automatically everydat and practically with no effect. Although it sound very
simple task for us, it has proven to be a complex task for a computer, as it has many variable that can impair the accuracy of
the methods, for example: illumination variation, low resolution, occlusion etc.
	There are different types of face recognition algorithms:
* LBPH- Local Binary Patterns Histograms
* Fisherfaces
* Scale Invariant Feature Transform
* Speed Up Robust Feature

2.Task methodology:
	Task is divided in 3 main parts. 1)Storing Faces 2)Training the recognizer 3)Face recognition

	Storing Faces:
		A dataset folder is created in which all the sample faces are stored. 100 photos are captured for each user.
	Name of the images is labeled as 'user' followed by 'user id' followed by 'user name' followed by 'no of image'. ID and 
	name is to distinguish image manually.

	Training the recognizer:
		Using the collection of photos and user id attached to them via image name, a data file is created. Data file is 
	created in such a way, that data is grouped by user id for 100 images with same user id, and than the data is stored in 
	trainer.yml file.

	Face Recognition:
		Face recognition is the final and desired part of the project.In this part users are labeled with thier name
	when appears in front of camera.
3. Language, libraries, methods:
	We used Python, a HLL coputer language in order to program mini face recognizer.
	
	OpenCV, os, numpy, pandas libraries are used.
		OpenCv library is used to access webcam, load cascadeclassifier, create recogniser, train recogniser.
	  	OS is used to access,load,create directories.
		Numpy is used for calcualtion while training the recogniser and storing data in matrix form.
		pandas is used to read data.csv file in which user ID and user name is stored.

 	Methods/funcitons used:
		cv2.videoCapture() : To access webcam
		cv2.cacadeclassifier(): Load xml file(consist of data) that detects the object (face here).
		detectMultiscale(): Return the faces in frame.
		videocapture.read(): To read the frame via webcam.
		cv2.cvtColor(): Change color scale of image (since, we gonna work on grayscale).
		cv2.imWrite(): Save the frame that has been catured.
		cv2.imshow(): Dispaly the frame.	
		cv2.waitKey(): Wait for key press.
		cv2.face.LBPHFaceRecognizer_create(): Create a LBPH recognizer.
		recognizer.train() : Extract data from each image and group them.
		recognizer.save(): Save the data which is extracted after processing the iamges.
		recognizer.predict(): Compares the live faces with dataset, and return id, confidence.

4. Summary:
		Do it yourself
	
